Have you ever wanted to be in a number of places at the same time? Then
you know exactly how Peter Rabbit felt in the beautiful springtime. You
see, there was so much going on everywhere all the time that Peter felt
sure he was missing something, no matter how much he saw and heard. In
that he was quite right.

But you may be sure Peter did his best not to miss any more than he had
to. He scampered lipperty-lipperty-lip this way, lipperty-lipperty-lip
that way, and lipperty-lipperty-lip the other way, watching, listening,
asking questions and making a nuisance of himself generally. For a
while there were so many new arrivals in the Old Orchard and on the
Green Meadows, feathered friends returning from the Sunny South and in
a great hurry to begin housekeeping, and strangers passing through on
their way to the Far North, that Peter hardly gave the Green Forest a
thought.

But one moonlight night he happened to think of Paddy the Beaver and
that he hadn’t seen Paddy since before Paddy’s pond froze over early in
the winter.

“I must run over and pay him my respects,” thought Peter.

“I certainly must. I wonder if he is as glad as the rest of us that
Sweet Mistress Spring is here.”

No sooner did he think of this than Peter started,
lipperty-lipperty-lip, through the Green Forest for the pond of Paddy
the Beaver. Now the nearest way was past the great windfall where Mrs.
Bear made her home. Peter hadn’t thought of this when he started. He
didn’t think of it until he came in sight of it. The instant he saw
that old windfall he stopped short. He remembered Mrs. Bear and that he
had heard that she had a secret. Instantly curiosity took possession of
him. He forgot all about Paddy the Beaver.

For some time Peter sat perfectly still, looking and listening. There
was no sign of Mrs. Bear. Was she under that windfall in her bedroom
taking a nap, or was she off somewhere? Peter wished he knew. It was
such a lovely night that he had a feeling Mrs. Bear was out somewhere.
A hop at a time, pausing to look and listen between hops, Peter drew
nearer to the great windfall. Still there was no sign of Mrs. Bear.

With his heart going pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, Peter drew nearer
and nearer to the great windfall, and at last was close to it on the
side opposite to Mrs. Bear’s entrance. Taking care not to so much as
rustle a dry leaf on the ground, Peter stole around the end of the
great windfall until he could see the entrance Mrs. Bear always used.
No one was in sight. Peter drew a long breath and hopped a little
nearer. He felt very brave and bold, but you may be sure that at the
same time he was ready to jump and run, as only he can at the least
hint of danger.

For a long time Peter sat and stared at that entrance and wished he
dared just poke his head inside. If Mrs. Bear really had a secret, it
was somewhere inside there. Anyway, that is what old Granny Fox had
said. He had almost worked his courage up to the point of taking just
one hurried little peek in that entrance when his long ears caught a
faint rustling sound under the great windfall.

Peter scurried off to a safe distance, then turned and stared at that
entrance. He half expected to see Mrs. Bear’s great head come poking
out and he was ready to take to his heels. Instead a very small head
and then another close beside it appeared.

Peter was so surprised he nearly fell over backward. Then in a flash it
came to him that he knew Mrs. Bear’s secret. It was out at last. Yes,
sir, it was out at last. Mrs. Bear had a family! Mrs. Bear and Buster
Bear had twins!


It isn’t often that Peter Rabbit has a chance to scare any one. You
know he is such a timid fellow himself that he is the one who usually
gets the fright. So when he does happen to scare some one it always
amuses him. Somehow he always has more respect for himself.

When on that moonlight night he discovered Mrs. Bear’s secret, he had
the most mixed feelings he ever had known. First came surprise, as
he saw those two little heads poked out of Mrs. Bear’s entrance. He
was sitting up very straight and the surprise was so great that he all
but tumbled over backwards. You see, there was no mistaking those two
little heads for any but those of baby Bears! He knew that those were
two Bear cubs, Mrs. Bear’s babies, the secret she had kept hidden so
long under the great windfall.

And his surprise at seeing those two little heads was only a little
greater than his surprise at the smallness of them. So for perhaps
two minutes Peter sat motionless, quite overcome with surprise, as he
stared at those two funny little heads poked out from the entrance
under the great windfall. Then all in a flash he understood the cause
of Mrs. Bear’s short temper and the reason she drove everybody away
from there, and he felt a sudden panic of fright.

“This is no place for me,” thought Peter, “and the sooner I get away
from here the better.” He looked hastily all about. There was no sign
of Mrs. Bear. Right then and there curiosity returned in full force.

“I wish those youngsters would come out where I can look at them and
just see how big they are,” thought Peter. “It seems safe enough here
now, and perhaps if I wait a few minutes they will come out.”

So Peter waited. Sure enough, in a few minutes the two little cubs did
come out. Plainly it was their first glimpse of the Green Forest, and
Peter almost laughed right out at the look of wonder on their faces as
they stared all about in the moonlight. But not even his first surprise
was greater than Peter’s surprise now as he saw how small they were.

“Why,” he exclaimed to himself, “why-ee, they are no bigger than I! I
didn’t suppose any one so big as great big Mrs. Bear could have such
small children. I wonder how old they are. I wonder how big they were
when they were born. I wonder if they will grow fast. I wonder if they
will go about with Mrs. Bear. I suppose Buster Bear is their father,
and I wonder if he ever comes to see them. They look to me rather
wobbly on their legs. I wonder if Mrs. Bear told them they could come
out.”

And then the imp of mischief whispered to Peter. “I wonder if I can
scare them,” thought Peter. “It would be great fun to scare a Bear,
even if it is nothing but a cub, and to scare two at once would be
greater fun.”

Peter suddenly thumped the ground very hard with his hind feet. It was
so still there in the Green Forest that that thump sounded very loud.
The two little cubs gave a startled look towards Peter. As he sat up
straight in the moonlight, he looked very big. That is, he did to those
two little cubs who never had seen him before.

With funny little whimpers of fright they turned and fairly tumbled
over each other as they scurried back through the entrance under the
great windfall. Peter laughed and laughed until his sides ached. He,
Peter Rabbit, actually had frightened two Bears and made them run. Now
he would have something to boast about.

As two frightened little cubs ran, whimpering and tumbling over each
other, for the safety of the bedroom under the great windfall, Peter
Rabbit thumped twice more just by way of adding to their fright. It was
most unkind of Peter. Of course. He should have been ashamed of trying
to frighten babies, and those two cubs were babies and nothing more.
They were baby Bears.

But Peter had so often felt little cold chills of fear chasing each
other up and down his backbone in the presence of Buster Bear and Mrs.
Bear that it tickled him to be able to scare any Bears, big or little.
Truth to tell, it gave him a feeling as if somehow he was getting even
with Buster and Mrs. Bear. Of course he wasn’t. Certainly not. But he
had that feeling, and he didn’t once stop to think how cowardly it was
to frighten babies, even though they were Bear babies.

After the two cubs had disappeared, he could hear them scrambling along
under the great windfall as they hurried for the darkest corner of that
dark bedroom where Mother Bear had left them when she went out to look
for something to eat. All the way there they whimpered just as if they
thought some dreadful enemy was after them. Peter laughed until his
sides ached and the tears came to his eyes.

An angry growl right behind him put a sudden end to Peter’s laughter
and glee. It was his turn to run headlong and to whimper as he ran. My,
what jumps he made! It seemed as if his feet barely touched the ground
before he was in the air again. If those little cubs had been scared,
Peter was twice as scared. They had run without knowing what they ran
from. But Peter knew what he was running from. He was running from an
angry mother, and that mother was a Bear. It was enough to make anybody
run.

Peter had been so intent on frightening those little cubs and then
laughing at them that he had not heard Mother Bear until she had given
that angry growl right behind him. Then he hadn’t stopped to explain.
Peter believes in running first and explaining later. But at the rate
he was going now, there wouldn’t be any explaining, because by the time
he stopped Mother Bear wouldn’t be near enough to hear a word he said.

The fact is Mother Bear didn’t follow Peter. She simply growled once
or twice in her deepest, most grumbly-rumbly voice just to add a little
speed to Peter’s long legs, if that were possible. Then as she watched
Peter run headlong she grinned. Just as Peter had laughed at the fright
of the little cubs, Mother Bear grinned at Peter’s fright.

“I hope that will teach him a lesson,” muttered Mrs. Bear, way down in
her throat. “I don’t want that long-eared bunch of curiosity hanging
around here. He got a glimpse of those youngsters of mine, and now my
secret will be out. Well, I suppose it would have had to be out soon.”

Mrs. Bear turned into the entrance to her bedroom under the
windfall, while Peter Rabbit kept on, lipperty-lipperty-lip,
lipperty-lipperty-lip, through the Green Forest towards the Green
Meadows and the dear Old Briar-patch. He was eager to get there and
tell the news of Mrs. Bear’s long-kept secret.


Not in all the Green Forest could two livelier or more mischievous
little folks be found than Boxer and Woof-Woof. Boxer was just a wee
bit bigger than his sister, but he was no smarter, nor was he the least
bit quicker. For more than three months they had lived under the great
windfall in the Green Forest without even once poking their funny
little noses outside. You see, when they were born they were very small
and helpless.

And the first time they had poked their heads out, Peter Rabbit had
given them a terrible scare by thumping the ground with his hind feet.
Safely back in their bedroom they snuggled together.

“Who do you suppose that terrible fellow was?” whispered Woof-Woof. How
that would have pleased Peter could he have heard it!

“I haven’t the least idea,” replied Boxer. “I guess we are lucky to be
safely back here. Did you notice how his ears stood up?”

“We must ask Mother Bear about him,” said Woof-Woof. “He was only
about our size, and perhaps he isn’t so terrible after all. Here she
comes now.”

“Let’s not say anything about it,” whispered Boxer hurriedly. “You know
she told us not to go outside. We may see him again sometime and then
we can ask her.”

So when Mrs. Bear arrived she found Boxer and Woof-Woof curled up with
their arms around each other and looking as innocent as it was possible
for baby Bears to look. Mother Bear grinned. She knew just what had
happened out there, for she had seen it all. You remember that she had
frightened Peter Rabbit even more than he had frightened the cubs. But
she wisely decided that she would say nothing about it then.

“These cubs have had their first lesson in life,” thought she, as she
watched them trying so hard to appear to be asleep. “They disobeyed
and as a result they got a great fright. I won’t tell them that Peter
Rabbit is one of the most harmless fellows in all the Great World. They
will remember this fright longer if I don’t. These scamps are growing
like weeds. They went outside tonight while I was away, and that
means that it is time to take them out and show them something of the
Great World. If I don’t, they will try it again while I am away, and
something might happen to them. They are still so small that if Old Man
Coyote should happen to find one of them alone I am afraid the sly old
sinner would make an end of that cub.”

She poked the two cubs. “You’re not asleep,” said she. “Don’t think you
can fool your mother. To-morrow morning you can go outside and play a
little while, providing you will promise not to go more than one jump
away from the entrance to this home of ours. There are great dangers in
the Green Forest for little Bears.”

Of course Boxer and Woof-Woof promised, and so for several mornings
they played just outside the entrance while their mother pretended to
take a nap. It was then that Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Sammy Jay
and Blacky the Crow had great fun frightening those twin cubs. And
they didn’t know, nor did the twins, that all the time Mother Bear knew
just what was going on and was keeping quiet so that the twins might
learn for themselves.


Not in all the Green Forest is there a wiser or better mother than Mrs.
Bear. No one knows better than she the dangers of the Great World, or
the importance of learning early in life all those things which a Bear
who would live to a good old age should know. So after allowing the
twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof, to play around the entrance to their home
under the great windfall for a few days, she took them for their first
walk in the Green Forest.

“Now,” said she, as she prepared to lead the way, “you are to do just
as I do. You are to follow right at my heels, and the one who turns
aside for anything without my permission will be spanked. Do you
understand?”

“Yes’m,” replied Boxer and Woof-Woof meekly.

My, my, my, how excited they were as Mother Bear led the way out from
under the old windfall! This was to be a great, a wonderful adventure.
They tingled all over. They were actually going out to see something of
the Great World.

The first thing Mother Bear did was to sit up and carefully test
the wind with her nose. Boxer sat up and did exactly the same thing.
Woof-Woof sat up and did exactly the same thing. The Merry Little
Breezes tickled their noses with many scents. Mother Bear knew what
each one was, but of course the twins didn’t know any of them. All they
knew was that they smelled good.

Mother Bear cocked her ears forward and listened. Boxer cocked his ears
forward and listened. Woof-Woof cocked her ears forward and listened.
Mother Bear looked this way and looked that way. Boxer looked this way
and looked that way. So did Woof-Woof.

“These are the things you must always do whenever you start out in the
Great World,” explained Mother Bear in her deep, grumbly-rumbly voice.
“You must learn to know the meaning of every scent that reaches your
nose, of every sound that reaches your ears, of everything you see, for
only by such knowledge can you keep out of danger. But you must never
trust your ears or your eyes only. Your nose is more to be trusted than
either ears or eyes or both ears and eyes. But always use all three.”

“Yes’m,” replied Boxer and Woof-Woof.

Then Mother Bear started off among the great trees, shuffling along
and swinging her head from side to side. Right at her heels shuffled
Boxer, swinging his head from side to side, and right at his heels
shuffled Woof-Woof, swinging her head from side to side. Whatever
Mother Bear did the twins did. They did it because Mother Bear did it.
They were keeping their promise. And little as they were, they felt
very big and important, for now at last they were out in the Great
World.

Chatterer the Red Squirrel saw them start out, and he chuckled as he
watched those two funny little cubs do exactly as Mother Bear did. He
followed along in the tree tops, jumping from tree to tree, but taking
the greatest care to make no noise. He was fairly aching for a chance
to scare those cubs. But as long as Mother Bear was with them, he
didn’t dare to try.

Mother Bear stopped and sniffed at an old log. Then she went on.
Boxer stopped and solemnly sniffed at that old log. Then he went on.
Woof-Woof stopped and sniffed at that old log. Then she went on. And so
at last they came to a place where the earth was soft and where grew
certain roots of which Mrs. Bear is very fond.

When Mother Bear reached the place where grew the roots of which she
was so fond, she led the twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof, over to a big
tree, stood up and dug her great claws into the bark above her head. Of
course Boxer did the same thing. Mother Bear gave him a push. Boxer was
so surprised that without realizing what he was doing he pulled himself
up a little higher, clinging to the tree with the claws of all four
feet and hugging the trunk with arms and legs.

“Go right on up,” said Mother Bear in her deep, grumbly-rumbly voice.
“Go right on up until you reach those branches up there. There is
nothing to fear. Those claws were given you for climbing, and it
is time for you to learn how to use them. When you get up to those
branches, you stay up there until I tell you to come down. If you
don’t, you will be spanked. Now up with you! Let me see you climb.”

Boxer scrambled a little higher. Mother Bear turned and started
Woof-Woof up after Boxer. It was a strange experience for the twins.
Never before had they been above the ground, and it frightened them.
They scrambled a little way then looked down and whimpered. Then they
looked up at the branches above them. To Boxer and Woof-Woof those
branches seemed a terrible distance up. They seemed way, way up in the
sky. Really they were not very high up at all. But you remember the
twins were very little, and this was their first climb.

So they stopped and whimpered and looked down longingly at the ground.
But right under them stood Mother Bear, and there was a look in her
eyes that told them she intended to be obeyed. Having her standing
right below them gave them courage. So Boxer scrambled a little
higher. Then Woof-Woof, who simply couldn’t allow her brother to do
anything she didn’t do, scrambled a little higher. Boxer started again.
Woof-Woof followed. And so at last they reached the branches. Then and
not until then Mother Bear left the foot of the tree and shuffled off
to dig for roots.

The instant they got hold of those branches the twins felt safe. They
forgot their fears. Quite unexpectedly they felt very much at home. And
of course they felt very big and bold. For a while they were content
to sit and look down at the wonderful Great World. It seemed to them
that from way up there they must be looking at nearly all of the Great
World. Of course, they really were looking at only a very small part
of the Green Forest. But it was very, very wonderful to the twins, and
they looked and looked and for a long time they didn’t say a word.

By and by they noticed Mother Bear digging roots some distance away.
“Isn’t it funny that Mother Bear has grown so much smaller?” ventured
Woof-Woof.

Boxer looked puzzled. Mother Bear certainly did look smaller. Even
as he watched she moved farther away, and the farther she went the
smaller she seemed to be. Boxer held on with one hand and scratched his
head with the other. For the first time in his life he was doing some
real thinking. “I don’t believe she can be any smaller,” said he. “It
must be she looks smaller because she is so far away. That old log down
there looks smaller than it did when we stopped and sniffed at it. Some
of those young trees that looked tall when we passed under them don’t
look tall at all now. I guess the way a thing looks depends on how near
it is!”

Of course Boxer was quite right in this. He was already beginning to
learn, beginning to use those lively wits which Old Mother Nature had
put in that funny little head of his.


Chatterer the Red Squirrel was indignant. He was very indignant. In
fact Chatterer was angry. You know he is short-tempered and it doesn’t
take a great deal to make him lose his temper. He had watched Mrs.
Bear and the twins start out from the great windfall and had silently
followed, keeping in the tree tops as much as possible, and taking the
greatest care not to let Mrs. Bear or the twins know that he was about.

Inside he had chuckled to see the twins do exactly what Mother Bear
did. When she sat up and they sat up beside her, they looked so funny
that he had hard work to keep from laughing right out. He had seen many
funny things in the Green Forest, but nothing quite so funny as those
two little Bears, hardly bigger than Peter Rabbit, gravely doing just
exactly what their mother did.

So Chatterer followed, all the time hoping for a chance to give those
twins a scare. But he didn’t want to try it while Mother Bear was
around. So he waited, hoping that she would leave them alone for a few
minutes. Finally Mother Bear set the twins to climbing a tree. It was
then that Chatterer became so very indignant. His sharp eyes snapped as
he watched the twins scramble up that tree. He hoped they would fall.
Yes, sir, Chatterer really hoped those twin cubs would fall.

You see, the trouble was that Chatterer didn’t like the idea of those
little Bears learning to climb trees. He felt that the trees belonged
to the Squirrel family. It was bad enough to have Bobby Coon and
Unc’ Billy Possum climbing them. Now to have two lively little Bears
learning to climb was too much. It was altogether too much.

“They haven’t any business in trees,” sputtered Chatterer to himself,
taking care not to be heard. “They haven’t any business in trees. They
belong on the ground, not in trees. I won’t have them in the trees! I
won’t! I won’t!”

Now of course Chatterer knew, right down in his heart, that those cubs
had just as much right in the trees as had he.

The real truth of the matter was that so long as those little cubs
remained on the ground, Chatterer feared them not at all. He could
be as saucy and impudent to them as he pleased. He could tease them
and try to scare them and feel quite safe about it, so long as their
mother wasn’t about. But if those cubs were going to learn to climb,
and he had a feeling that they would make very good climbers, matters
might be altogether different.

Chatterer watched the twins and he watched Mother Bear. At last the
latter disappeared from sight. Unseen by the twins, Chatterer leaped
across to the very tree in which they were sitting, but above them.
“I’ll give them such a scare that they will either fall down or will
scramble down and never’ll want to climb another tree,” muttered
Chatterer.

Silently he crept up behind them; then he opened his mouth and yelled
at them. “Get down out of this tree!” he yelled. “Get down out of this
tree!”

He was so close to those little Bears that his voice seemed to be in
their very ears. They recognized it as a voice which had scared them
two or three times when they had first come out of the great windfall
to play. It was so close and so unexpected that it startled them so
that they almost let go their hold. Then Boxer turned and for the first
time had a good view of Chatterer. He was looking at a very angry Red
Squirrel. But instead of being afraid and starting to scramble down
from that tree, as Chatterer had expected him to do, Boxer suddenly
started straight for him, and it was plain to see that Boxer was an
angry small Bear.

The best laid plans, even those of the smartest of Red Squirrels,
sometimes go wrong. Chatterer’s plan had gone wrong, just about as
wrong as it could go. Those provoking twins, instead of being scared
into falling or scrambling down from that tree, had been made angry and
actually were starting after him. Boxer started first and Woof-Woof
promptly followed. You know whatever Boxer did, Woof-Woof did.

Now Chatterer hadn’t reckoned on any such thing as this happening. Not
at all. And like most people who try to scare babies, Chatterer is not
at all brave. Most of his bravery is in his tongue. For just an instant
he was too surprised to move. Even his tongue was still. Then he turned
and ran up that tree as fast as he could.

The twins came scrambling after, and they came surprisingly fast. You
see, there were plenty of branches to hold on to, so they had no fear
of falling. Chatterer was so scared that he didn’t use those usually
quick wits of his, and he ran up past the only branch of that tree that
reached out near enough to another tree for him to jump across. When
he thought of it, it was too late. Yes, sir, it was too late. Boxer was
already standing on that very branch.

Chatterer felt then that he was trapped. He couldn’t jump across to
another tree. He didn’t dare try to get down past those twins. He
wouldn’t think of jumping down to the ground, unless he was actually
obliged to, for it was a dreadful jump. All he could do was to climb
higher and hope those twins would be afraid to follow him.

But by this time Boxer and Woof-Woof were enjoying the chase. They were
enjoying the fun of climbing, and they were enjoying the discovery that
they were no longer afraid of this saucy, red-coated scamp, but that
he was afraid of them.

“See him run!” cried Boxer. “Come on, Woof-Woof, let’s catch him! He is
so small and quick that he can get about faster than we can, but we are
two and he is only one. Between us we ought to be able to catch him.”

Woof-Woof was quite willing, and they climbed on up after Chatterer.
Chatterer’s tongue was still now. He made no sound. He no longer called
names. He no longer made faces. He no longer looked saucy or impudent.
He looked exactly what he was, a badly scared Red Squirrel. He was
sorry now that he had lost his temper and tried to scare those twins.
He was very, very sorry. But it was too late. Being sorry didn’t help
him any now.

He was in a bad scrape, was Chatterer, and he knew it. Either of those
twin Bears was much bigger than he, although they were little more than
babies. They had found him out and had already discovered that they had
nothing to fear from him and that he was afraid of them. It was plain
to see that they were having a good time. They were enjoying the chase.
Chatterer looked down at their sharp little claws and more than ever he
was sorry he had not let them alone.

By this time Chatterer was clinging to the very top of that tree. If
those twins came up there, he would have to make the terrible jump
to the ground. He shivered as he looked down. Would those surprising
twins, or one of them, be able to get up near enough to reach him?

Boxer and Woof-Woof were having the best time of their short lives.
Climbing was great fun. Although this was the first time they had
climbed a tree, they already felt quite at home up there where the
branches grew. It was fun just to climb from branch to branch. It was
still greater fun to chase that red-coated little rascal who had tried
to scare them out of that tree. You see, this was the first time the
twins had found any one afraid of them, and it made them feel quite
important. It made them feel big. They felt twice as big as when they
had whimperingly started to climb that tree. So the twins were having a
wonderful time.

But Chatterer the Red Squirrel was having anything but a wonderful
time. He was wishing with all his might that he had kept his saucy
tongue still; that he had not jumped over into that tree to try to
scare those cubs; that he had not followed them in the first place;
that they would become dizzy and afraid. He even wished that they would
fall. The fact is, Chatterer was so badly frightened that he was
capable of wishing almost anything dreadful if it would only give him a
chance to escape.

Now if Chatterer had not been so badly frightened, he would have seen
that Boxer, the twin who was in the lead, was already hesitating. He
had reached a point where the branches were so small that they bent
dangerously when he stepped on them. He had climbed as high as it was
safe for him to climb, and he knew it. But having set out to catch that
red mischief-maker, he couldn’t bear to give up. That is, he felt that
if he did give up, Chatterer would boast that he had been too smart for
the cubs and would make fun of them. And this is just what Chatterer
would have done.

So while Chatterer was wishing with all his might that something would
happen to those twins, the twins were wishing for some good excuse for
stopping the chase without losing the respect they knew Chatterer now
had for them.

Just then a deep, grumbly-rumbly voice came up to them from the foot
of the tree. “Come down at once,” said the voice. It was the voice of
Mother Bear.

“Yes’m,” replied Woof-Woof meekly, beginning to climb down.

“I want to catch this fellow who tried to scare us,” whined Boxer,
pretending that he didn’t want to come down.

“You heard what I said,” replied Mother Bear, and her voice was more
grumbly-rumbly than before. “It is time to go home. Come down this
instant.”

“Yes’m,” replied Boxer, and this time he said it quite as meekly as had
his sister Woof-Woof. There was something in the sound of Mother Bear’s
voice that warned Boxer that it would be unwise to disobey.

So, with a warning to Chatterer that next time he would not get off
so easily, Boxer began to climb down after Woof-Woof. When the cubs
reached the lowest branches and had only the straight trunk to which
to cling, they were once more afraid, and all the way down they
whimpered. Somehow it was harder to climb down than up. It often is.
But at last they were on the ground. Mother Bear’s eyes twinkled with
pride, but she took care that the cubs should not see this.

“Obedience,” said she, “is the first great lesson in life. It saved you
a spanking this time.” Then she led the way home.

And as Boxer and Woof-Woof followed, doing exactly as she did, they
heard the jeering voice of Chatterer the Red Squirrel.

“Couldn’t catch me! Couldn’t catch me!” jeered Chatterer.


This is sad but true. It is so everywhere in the Great World, and the
Great World would be a much better place in which to live if it were
not so. It is the desire to get even that makes much of the trouble and
the hard feeling and the unhappiness everywhere. But there are times
when getting even certainly does give a lot of satisfaction. It was so
with the twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof.

You remember that the very first time they ventured out from under the
great windfall Peter Rabbit had given them a great fright by thumping
the ground with his hind-feet as only Peter can thump. The twins were
so small then and they knew so little of the Great World, in fact
nothing at all, that Peter had seemed to them a terrible fellow. They
never had forgotten him. Whenever they were outside the great windfall,
they watched for him, ready to run at sight of him.

But it was a long time before they saw Peter again, and when they did
they had grown so that they were considerably bigger than he. Besides,
they had been out on several trips into the Great World with Mother
Bear and had learned many things, for little Bears learn very fast and
have the best of memories. At last they saw Peter again. It happened
this way:

Peter had stayed away from the Green Forest as long as he could. Then
curiosity to see what was going on over there had been too much for
him, and he had started over to visit Paddy the Beaver. He took great
care to keep away from the great windfall where Mother Bear and the
twins lived. As curious as he was about those twins, and much as he
wanted to see them again, he was too much afraid of Mrs. Bear and her
short temper to take any chances. But he felt that it would be quite
safe to visit Paddy the Beaver, for Paddy’s pond was some distance from
the great windfall.

Now Peter didn’t know that Mother Bear was in the habit of taking the
twins with her wherever she went. It just happened that this very day
she had chosen to go over near the pond of Paddy the Beaver. The twins
had played until they were tired and then had curled up for a nap in a
sunny spot while their mother went fishing in the Laughing Brook.

When Peter arrived in sight of Paddy’s pond Mother Bear was hidden
behind some brush a little way up the Laughing Brook, and was sitting
quietly waiting for a fish to come within reach. For once Peter was
careless. He was so intent looking for Paddy the Beaver that he didn’t
use his eyes and ears for other things, as he should have. So he passed
within a few feet of the twins without seeing them. Just beyond he sat
up to look over the pond for Paddy.

Now the twins slept each with an ear open, as the saying is, and they
heard Peter pass. Open flew their eyes, and they saw at once that it
was the terrible fellow who had so frightened them once. But somehow
he no longer looked terrible. He was smaller than they had thought. In
fact, they were now considerably bigger than he. You see, they had been
growing very fast. Boxer’s eyes twinkled. Perhaps this fellow was like
Chatterer the Red Squirrel, bold and terrible only to those who feared
him. He nudged Woof-Woof. Very softly they got to their feet and stole
up behind Peter.

A twig snapped under Boxer’s feet. Peter turned. His eyes seemed to
pop right out of his head. With a squeal of fright, Peter jumped and
started, lipperty-lipperty-lip, for the nearest pile of brush, and
after him raced the twins. They knew now that this terrible fellow was
more afraid of them than ever they had been of him, and they meant to
get even for the fright he had given them when they were so little. It
was great fun.


Boxer and Woof-Woof were having no end of fun. Having chased Peter
Rabbit under a pile of brush, they were now trying to catch him. It
was even more fun than it had been to try to catch Chatterer the Red
Squirrel in the top of a tree.

But for Peter Rabbit it was no fun at all. The truth is, Peter was in
a tight place and he knew it. Never had he been more badly frightened.
It would have been bad enough had there been only one little Bear. Two
little Bears made it more than twice as bad.

In the first place they were very lively, were those two little Bears.
Peter hadn’t known that little Bears could be so lively. You see, these
were the first he ever had seen. The way in which they ran around that
pile of brush showed how very quick on their feet they were. Peter
didn’t doubt that he could outrun them if he could get a fair start;
the trouble was to get that fair start. He wished now that he had
trusted to his long legs instead of seeking shelter under that pile
of brush. He had done that in the suddenness of his fright, when
the little Bears had surprised him. It is Peter’s nature to seek a
hiding-place in time of danger, and usually this is the wisest thing
for him to do.

“I see him!” cried Boxer, poking his funny little head under the brush
on one side. “I’ll crawl under and drive him out to you, Woof-Woof!”

On the other side of the brush pile Woof-Woof danced up and down
excitedly. “I’ll get him! I’ll get him!” she cried. “Drive him out,
Boxer! Drive him out!”

“Ouch!” cried Boxer, as a sharp stick scratched his face. “He’s
crawling towards the end, Woof-Woof! Watch out!”

“Which end?” cried Woof-Woof, running from one end to the other and
back again.

“Ouch! Wow! I’m stuck!” came the voice of Boxer. A minute later he
backed out. “No use; I can’t get under there,” he panted. “I’ll jump on
top, and see if I can’t scare him out that way.”

So Boxer climbed up on the pile of brush and jumped up and down, while
Woof-Woof ran back and forth around the edge of the pile of brush,
stopping to peep under at every opening.

“I see him! I see him, Boxer!” she cried, and began to wriggle in under
the brush as Boxer had done.

But she didn’t go far. She soon found that Peter could get through
places where she couldn’t. Besides, it seemed as if sharp sticks
were reaching for her from every direction. Twice she squealed as
she scratched her face on them. “How do you like it,” called Boxer,
grinning at the sound of those squeals.

Woof-Woof backed out and brushed bits of bark from her coat, for she
was much neater than her brother. “I tell you what,” said she, “let’s
pull this pile of brush all apart. Then we’ll get him.”

So the twins set to work, one on one side and one on the other, to pull
that pile of brush apart. Yes, Peter Rabbit certainly was in a tight
place.


Those twin cubs were very much like some boys and girls. They were like
them in that they were wholly thoughtless. They were having a splendid
time as they tried to catch Peter Rabbit. They hadn’t had so much fun
for days. Not once did it pop into their funny little heads that Peter
was suffering because of their fun. No, sir, they didn’t once think of
that.

But Peter was suffering. Peter was suffering from fright, and that
kind of suffering often is worse than suffering from pain. He was sure
that those cubs meant to kill him and eat him. As a matter of fact,
such an idea hadn’t entered the heads of the twins. You see, they were
still too young to eat meat. All they were thinking of was the fun of
catching Peter and getting even with him for the scare he had once
given them.

Peter didn’t know this. Many people had tried to catch him, and every
one of them had wanted him for a dinner. So Peter was sure that this
was why Boxer and Woof-Woof were trying so hard to catch him. As he
dodged about under that pile of brush, his heart was in his mouth most
of the time. At least, that is the way it seemed to him. But this was
nothing to the way he felt when those cubs began to pull apart that
pile of brush. Then for a minute despair took possession of Peter.

But it was only for a minute. Peter had been in many tight places
before, and he had learned that giving up to despair is no way to get
out of tight places.

“If I stay here, they will get me,” thought Peter. “If I take a chance
and run they may get me, in which case I will be no worse off. But they
may not get me; so I think I’ll take the chance.”

He listened to those excited little cubs working with might and main
to pull that pile of brush apart. One was on one side and one was on
the other. He might get out at either end between them and get a start
before they saw him. He started to creep towards one end, but snapped
a dead twig, and the quick ears of Boxer heard it. “He’s coming out!”
squealed Boxer, and ran around to that end.

Peter crept back to the middle. In a minute or so Boxer was back,
pulling apart that brush. Then an old saying of his mother’s popped
into Peter’s head. He had heard her say it many times when he was
little and first venturing out into the Great World.

[Illustration: BOXER CLIMBED UP ON THE PILE OF BRUSH AND JUMPED UP AND
DOWN. _Page 67._]

“When you must take a chance, always do the thing no one expects you to
do,” was what his mother had said over and over again.

“Those cubs expect me to run out at one end or the other,” thought
Peter. “They don’t expect me to run out where either is at work. To do
that will take them by surprise. It is my best chance. Yes, sir, it is
my best chance.”

Peter crept toward the edge where Boxer was at work tearing that brush
apart. Once more his heart seemed to be in his mouth, and it was going
pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat. Watching his chance, he darted out under Boxer’s
very nose.



When Peter darted out under the very nose of Boxer, the little Bear was
so surprised that for a couple of seconds he didn’t do a thing. This
was what Peter had counted on. It gave him a fair start. Then with a
squeal Boxer started after him.

“He’s out! He’s out! Come on, Woof-Woof! We’ll catch him now!” cried
Boxer, and he was so excited that he stumbled over his own feet as he
started after Peter.

When Peter came out from under that pile of brush, he turned to the
left and started around the end of it, lipperty-lipperty-lip, as fast
as he could go. Again Peter was doing the unexpected. He knew that
Woof-Woof was on the other side of that pile of brush, and he knew that
she knew that he knew she was there. Of course, she wouldn’t expect him
to run around where she was. That would be the last thing in the world
she would expect.

So this is just what Peter did do. Around the end of that pile of
brush, lipperty-lipperty-lip, raced Peter, with Boxer at his heels.
Just as expected he met Woof-Woof running as fast as she could. Peter
dodged as only Peter can. Woof-Woof was running so fast she couldn’t
stop instantly. Boxer was running so fast he couldn’t stop.

Perhaps you can guess what happened. Those two little Bears ran into
each other so hard that both were knocked over! Yes, sir, that is just
what happened. Then both those little Bears lost their little tempers.
They forgot all about Peter Rabbit. Each blamed the other. They
scrambled to their feet. Quick as a flash Boxer reached out and boxed
his sister side of the head. “Why don’t you look where you are going?”
he snapped.

Woof-Woof was quite as quick as Boxer. Slap went one of her paws
against the side of Boxer’s face. “Do some looking out yourself!” she
sputtered.

They stood up and danced around each other, cuffing and slapping and
saying unkind things. They glared at each other with little eyes
red with anger. Boxer suddenly threw his arms around Woof-Woof and
upset her. Then they rolled over and over on the ground, striking,
scratching, and trying to bite. First one would be on top, then the
other. Over and over they tumbled, so fast that had you been there you
would have seen such a mix-up of little Bears that you wouldn’t have
been able to tell one from the other.

It was dreadful for those twins to fight. But they had lost their
tempers and there they were. You would never have guessed that they
were brother and sister. After a while they were so out of breath that
they had to stop.

“What are we fighting for?” asked Boxer, looking a little shame-faced
as he rubbed one ear.

“I don’t know,” confessed Woof-Woof, rubbing her nose.

“I-I-guess I lost my temper because you ran into me,” said Boxer.

“I didn’t. You ran into me,” declared Woof-Woof.

“No such thing!” growled Boxer, his eyes beginning to grow red again.
“You ran into me.”

Woof-Woofs little eyes began to snap, and I am afraid that there would
have been another dreadful scene had not the memory of Peter Rabbit
popped into Boxer’s head just then.

“Where’s that long-legged fellow we were after?” he cried. “It was all
his fault.”

The cubs scrambled to their feet and looked this way and that way, but
Peter Rabbit was nowhere to be seen.






If ever there were two foolish-feeling little Bears, the twins of
Buster Bear were those two. And they looked just as foolish as they
felt. While they had been fighting, Peter Rabbit had made the most of
his chance and the best use of his legs and had disappeared. Where he
had gone neither Boxer nor Woof-Woof had the least idea.

They looked this way. They looked that way. They peered under the pile
of brush. They even tore it all apart. There was no sign of Peter. As
a matter of fact, Peter was far away, headed straight for the dear Old
Briar-patch; and Peter was chuckling. The instant those cubs began to
fight, all fear had left Peter. He knew then that he had nothing more
to fear from them.

“People who lose their tempers lose their wits with them,” chuckled
Peter. “I couldn’t have done that better if I had planned it. My,
how those cubs have grown! I think I’ll keep away from that part of
the Green Forest. Yes, sir, I’ll keep away from there.” And in that
decision Peter showed that he wasn’t yet too old to learn a lesson and
gain wisdom therefrom.

At last the twins gave up looking for Peter. “I-I-I hope I didn’t hurt
you,” said Boxer meekly, as he saw Woof-Woof rub her nose again. “I
didn’t mean to.”

“Yes, you did,” retorted Woof-Woof. “You did mean to hurt me. I know,
because I know you felt just as I did, and I meant to hurt you. I-I-I
hope I didn’t.”

“Not much,” replied Boxer sheepishly as he felt of one ear.

“I guess we are even. That fellow we didn’t catch probably is laughing
at us and will tell everybody he meets what silly little Bears we are.
I guess it doesn’t pay to fight.”

“That depends,” said a deep, grumbly-rumbly voice. The twins turned to
find Mother Bear looking at them. “It never pays to fight excepting for
your rights, but the one who will not fight for his rights never will
get far in the Great World. Neither will the one who is always ready to
fight over nothing. Now what have you been fighting about?”

Feeling more and more foolish every minute, the twins told Mother Bear
all about Peter Rabbit, how they had tried to catch him, and how they
had lost their tempers when they bumped into each other.

Mother Bear’s eyes twinkled, but she took care that the twins should
not see that twinkle.

“You ought to be spanked, both of you,” said she sternly; “and the next
time I know of you fighting you will be spanked. I won’t spank you this
time, because I hope you have learned a lesson. When two people fight
over a thing, some one else is likely to get it. People who lose their
tempers usually lose more, just as you lost your chance to catch Peter
Rabbit. Now all the Green Forest will laugh at you, and Peter Rabbit
will boast that he was smarter than two Bears.”

“We’ll get even with him yet,” muttered Boxer.

“No, you won’t,” declared Mother Bear. “Peter Rabbit will never give
you a chance.”

And this is exactly what Peter Rabbit had resolved himself.






Boxer and Woof-Woof had begun to wonder if they and their mother were
the only Bears in the Green Forest. So far they had seen no other.
Then one day as they were playing about near the Laughing Brook, while
Mother Bear was busy a little way off tearing open an old stump after
ants, Woof-Woof discovered a footprint. She showed it to Boxer. Then
the two little cubs sat up and stared at each other and their little
eyes were very round with wonder.

“Mother Bear didn’t make that footprint,” whispered Boxer as if he were
afraid of being overheard. “Who do you suppose did?”

Woof-Woof moved a little nearer to Boxer. “I haven’t any idea,” she
whispered back, and hurriedly glanced all around. “It wasn’t Mother
Bear, for there is one of her footprints right over there, and it is
different. There must be a great big stranger around here.”

The twins drew very close together and stood up that they might better
stare in every direction. They were a little frightened at the thought
that a big stranger might be near. Then they remembered that Mother
Bear was only a little way off, and at once they felt better. They saw
no stranger. Everything about them seemed just as it should be. They
cocked their little ears to listen. All they heard was the sound of
Mother Bear’s great claws tearing open that old stump, the cawing of
Blacky the Crow far in the distance, the gurgle of the Laughing Brook,
and the whispering of the Merry Little Breezes in the tree tops.

Now not even Peter Rabbit has more curiosity than has a little
Bear. Presently Boxer dropped down to all fours and approached that
footprint. Already he had learned that his ears were better than his
eyes and his nose was better than his ears. His eyes had told him
nothing. His ears had told him nothing. Now he would try his nose.

He sniffed at that footprint and the hair along his shoulders rose a
little. His nose told him that that footprint was made by a Bear he
never had seen. There wasn’t any question about it. It told him that
the stranger had passed this way only a short time before. A great
desire to see that stranger took possession of Boxer. Curiosity was
stronger than fear.

“Let’s follow his tracks; perhaps we can see him,” whispered Boxer to
Woof-Woof, and started along with his nose to the ground.

Now whatever one twin did, the other did. So Woof-Woof followed her
brother. One behind the other, their noses to the ground, the twins
stole through the Green Forest. Every once in a while Boxer sat up to
look and listen. When he did this, Woof-Woof did the same thing. It was
very exciting. It was so exciting that they quite forgot Mother Bear
and that they had been told not to go away. So they got farther and
farther from where Mother Bear was at work.

And then, without any warning at all, a great Bear stepped out from
behind a fallen tree. He wore a black coat, and he was just about the
size of Mother Bear. Of course you know who it was. It was Buster Bear.
For the first time in their short lives the twins saw their father and
he saw them. But the twins didn’t know that he was their father, and he
didn’t know that they were his children. Things like that happen in the
Green Forest.





Mother Bear is a very wise mother. One of the first things she taught
the twins was that safety is the first and most important thing. Then
she taught them that it is better to run away from possible danger than
to wait to make sure of the danger.

“No harm comes of running away,” said she, “but if you wait you may
discover your danger too late to run. It is better to run away a
hundred times without cause than to be too late once in time of real
danger.”

So when the twins suddenly came face to face with Buster Bear for the
first time, they did just the right thing. For a second or two they
stared at him in frightened surprise, then they turned and ran.

Do you think it queer that the twins didn’t know their own father?
And do you think it even more queer that Buster Bear didn’t know his
own children? Just remember that they had never seen him and he had
never seen them before. For more than three months after they were
born they hadn’t been out from under that great windfall in the Green
Forest. When they did come out, Buster Bear had been in another part
of the Green Forest. Mother Bear had warned him to keep away from that
windfall, and Buster had obeyed. So Boxer and Woof-Woof had known
nothing about their father and Buster had known nothing about the twins.

Now when Buster saw those cubs, not knowing they were his own, he
was filled with sudden anger. He didn’t want any more Bears in the
Green Forest. He wanted the Green Forest just for himself and Mrs.
Bear. Those young Bears were likely to make a great deal of trouble.
Anyway, they would need a lot of food, and this would mean that it
would be just so much harder for him to get enough to satisfy his own
big appetite. So after the first surprised stare Buster growled. It
was a grumbly-rumbly growl deep down in his throat. The twins heard it
as they started to run, and it was the most awful sound they ever had
heard.

Straight to the nearest tall tree ran the twins, and up they scrambled.
Chatterer the Red Squirrel could hardly have gone up that tree faster.
Somehow they felt safer in a tree than on the ground. Buster Bear
walked over to the foot of the tree and looked up at the cubs. They
were fat, were those cubs. They were very fat.

“They look good enough to eat,” thought Buster, as he stood up at the
foot of the tree, looking up at Boxer and Woof-Woof. “They would make
me a very good dinner. They have no business here, anyway. I’ve been
living on roots and such things so long that a little fresh meat would
taste good. If I go up after them, I can do two things at once, rid the
Green Forest of a pair of troublesome youngsters who are bound to make
trouble, and get a good dinner. I believe I’ll do it.”

Of course this was very dreadful, but you know Buster didn’t know that
those cubs were his own. They meant no more to him than did Peter
Rabbit, and you know he wouldn’t have hesitated an instant to gobble up
Peter if he had had the chance.

Buster looked all around to make sure that no one saw him. Then he dug
his great claws into that tree and started to climb up.




The love of a mother is wonderful beyond all things. There is nothing
to compare with it. There is nothing it will not attempt to do. There
is no danger it will not face. There is no sacrifice it will not make.
It is the most beautiful, the most perfect of all things.

Boxer and Woof-Woof had thought that in climbing a tall tree they were
making themselves safe. It had not entered their funny little heads
that great big Buster Bear would climb that tree. So you can imagine
how terribly frightened they were when Buster started up that tree
after them. They scrambled up and up until they were just as high as
they could get. There they clung with feet and hands, the worst scared
little folks in all the Green Forest.

Now little Bears are much like little boys and girls in very many ways,
and one of these is their faith in mother. Another is that when they
are frightened or in trouble they cry and yell for mother.

That is just what Boxer and Woof-Woof did now. The instant they saw
Buster, they began to whimper and cry softly, and they kept it up as
they scrambled up the trunk of that tree. But when they saw Buster Bear
climbing up after them, they simply opened their months and bawled.

“Mamma! Mamma-a-a!” yelled Boxer, at the top of his lungs.

“Oh-o-o, mamma-a-a!” screamed Woof-Woof.

Now fortunately for the twins, Mother Bear was not so far away that she
couldn’t hear them. By the sound of their voices she knew that this
was no ordinary trouble they were in. Terror was in the sound of those
voices. Those twins were in danger. There was no doubt about it. That
danger might be danger for her as well, but she didn’t give that a
thought. She plunged straight in the direction from which those cries
were coming, and she didn’t stop to pick her way. She crashed straight
through brush and branches in her way, jumped over logs, and broke down
young trees.

At the sound of the first crash made by Mother Bear as she started for
those cubs, Buster Bear stopped climbing. He turned his head and looked
anxiously in that direction, his little ears cocked to catch every
sound. At the second crash Buster Bear decided that that was no place
for him. He didn’t stop to climb down. He simply let go and dropped.
Yes, sir, that is what he did. He let go and dropped.

It was quite a way to the ground, but the ground was where Buster Bear
wanted to be, and he wanted to be there right away. He wanted to be
there before whoever was coming could reach that tree. And the quickest
way of getting there was to drop. A few bruises and a shaking up were
nothing to Buster Bear just then.

The grunt he gave when he hit the ground even the twins heard way up in
the top of the tree. It made them stop bawling for a minute to wonder
if Buster had been killed. But Buster hadn’t been killed. Goodness, no!
In an instant he was on his feet and running away so fast that even
Lightfoot the Deer would have had to do his best to keep up with him.
And over his shoulder Buster Bear was throwing frightened glances.

He was not out of sight when Mother Bear burst out from among the
trees. She saw him instantly. With a roar of rage, she started after
Buster. Buster had seemed to be moving fast, but it was nothing
compared to the way he moved when he heard that roar.




The instant they saw Mother Bear, the twins stopped bawling. Nothing
could harm them now. They knew it. Mother would take care of them.
Of that there wasn’t a shadow of a doubt in the minds of Boxer and
Woof-Woof. Hanging on with every claw of hands and feet, they leaned
out as far as they could to see what would happen to that great black
Bear who had frightened them so.

But nothing happened to Buster Bear for the very good reason that he
didn’t wait for anything to happen. Buster was doing no waiting at all.
In fact, he was moving so fast and at the same time trying to watch
behind him that he didn’t even pick his path. He bumped into trees
and stumbled over logs in a way that to say the least was not at all
dignified. But Buster was in too much of a hurry to think of dignity.
There was something about the looks of Mother Bear as she tore after
him that made him feel sure that he would find it much pleasanter in
another part of the Green Forest, and he was in a hurry to get there.

Mother Bear didn’t follow him far, only just far enough to make sure
that he intended to keep right on going. Then, growling dreadful
threats, she hurried back to the tree in which the cubs were. Boxer
and Woof-Woof were already scrambling down as fast as they could,
whimpering a little, for though they felt wholly safe now, they were
not yet over their fright. She reached the foot of the tree just as
they reached the ground.

She sat up and the twins rushed to her and snuggled as close to her as
they could get. Mother Bear put a big arm around each and patted them
gently. It was surprising how gentle great big Mother Bear could be.

“Wha-wha-what would that awful fellow have done to us?” asked
Woof-Woof, crowding still closer to Mother Bear.

“Eaten you,” growled Mother Bear, and little cold shivers ran all over
Woof-Woof and Boxer.

“I hate him!” declared Boxer.

“So do I!” cried Woof-Woof. “I think he is dreadful, and I hope we’ll
never, never, never, see him again!”

“But you will,” replied Mother Bear. “I don’t think you’ll see him
again right away, for he knows it isn’t wise for him to hang around
here when I am about. But by and by, when you are bigger, you will see
him often. The fact is, he is your father.”

“What!” screamed the twins, quite horrified. “That dreadful fellow our
father!”

“Just so,” growled Mrs. Bear. “Just so. And he isn’t dreadful at all.
You mustn’t speak of your father that way.”

“But if it isn’t dreadful for a father to want to eat his own children,
I guess I don’t know what dreadful means,” declared Boxer in a most
decided tone. “I call it dreadful, and I hate him. I do so.”

“Softly, Boxer. Softly,” chided Mother Bear. “You see, he didn’t know
you were his children. He knows it now, but until he saw me coming to
your rescue he didn’t know it. He never had seen you before. You were
simply two tempting-looking little strangers who, if I do say it, look
good enough to eat.” She squeezed them and patted them fondly. “His
name,” she added, “is Buster Bear.”




That is why people so often cannot agree. Each sees a thing from a
different point of view and so it looks different. Just take the case
of Buster Bear and the twins. When Boxer and Woof-Woof looked down at
Buster Bear climbing the tree after them, he seemed a terrible fellow.
But when they saw him running from Mother Bear, he didn’t seem so very
terrible after all.

Of course it was a great surprise to the cubs to learn that Buster
Bear was their father. They couldn’t think or talk of anything else the
rest of that day.

“Did you notice what a beautiful black coat he had?” asked Boxer,
glancing at his own little black coat with pride.

“I like brown better myself,” sniffed Woof-Woof, whose coat was brown
like their mother’s.

“He really is very big and handsome,” continued Boxer.

“And a coward,” sniffed Woof-Woof. “You noticed how he ran from Mother
Bear.”

“That was because he discovered his mistake about us. Of course he
wouldn’t fight then,” Boxer said in defense.

“I don’t care, I think he is a poor sort of a father, and I’m not a bit
proud of him,” persisted Woof-Woof.

“I hope I grow up to be as big and handsome as he is. I’m glad my coat
is black,” Boxer declared.

“Huh!” sniffed Woof-Woof. “A black coat may cover a black heart. We are
lucky not to be inside that black coat of his right now.”

This was true, and Boxer knew it. He wisely attempted no reply. “Where
do you suppose he lives?” he ventured.

“I haven’t the least idea, but I hope it isn’t near here. I don’t want
to see him again ever,” retorted Woof-Woof.

“But he is your own father,” protested Boxer.

“I don’t care. If all fathers are like him, I don’t think much of
fathers,” sputtered Woof-Woof.

Mother Bear came up just in time to hear this. “Tut, tut, tut,” said
she. “I won’t have you talking that way about your father. By and by
you will know him better and learn to respect him. He is the handsomest
Bear I have ever seen, and some day you will be proud that he is your
father.”

“I like mothers best,” confided Woof-Woof, snuggling up to Mother Bear.
Mother Bear’s face suddenly grew very stern. “I want to know,” said
she, “how he happened to find you up that tree.”

“We-we met him and he chased us up that tree,” explained Boxer.

“And how did you happen to meet him?” persisted Mother Bear. “That tree
was a long way from where I left you at play and charged you to stay.”

The cubs hung their heads.

“We-we-we found his tracks and followed them,” stammered Boxer in a low
voice.

“And got a fright, which was no more than you deserved,” declared
Mother Bear. “You ought to be spanked, both of you, for your
disobedience. Now you see what comes of not minding. I hope the fright
you have had will be a lesson you never will forget. And don’t let me
hear you say another word against your father.”

“No’m,” replied the twins meekly.


Wonderful days were these for the twins, Boxer and Woof-Woof. Every
day there was something new to see or hear or taste or smell or feel.
And then there had to be tucked away in each funny little head where
it could not be forgotten the memory of exactly how each of these new
things looked or sounded or tasted or smelled or felt. Mother Bear was
very particular about this. So, though the twins didn’t know it, they
were really going to school all the time that they thought they were
simply having good times and wonderful adventures.

One day Mother Bear led them over to the pond of Paddy the Beaver. How
the cubs did stare when they got their first glimpse of that pond. The
Laughing Brook was the only water they were acquainted with, and in
that part of the Green Forest it was narrow and the pools were very
small. They had not supposed there was so much water in all the Great
World as now lay before them in the pond of Paddy the Beaver.

Mother Bear led the way straight to one end of the dam which Paddy
had built to make that pond. She started across that dam. The twins
followed. Every few steps they stopped to wonder at that pond. The
Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were dancing across the
middle of it and making little ripples that sparkled as the Jolly
Little Sunbeams kissed them.

Close to the dam the water was smooth, for the Merry Little Breezes had
not come in there. Boxer and Woof-Woof looked down. Perhaps you can
guess how they felt when they saw two little Bears of just their size
staring back at them. The twins were so surprised that they backed
away hastily. The stranger cubs did exactly the same thing. This gave
Boxer and Woof-Woof confidence. They moved forward to the very edge of
the dam, and there they sat up.

When they did this they lost sight of the other little Bears. They
didn’t know what to make of it. Then Boxer happened to look down in the
water. There were the stranger cubs sitting up and doing exactly as he
and Woof-Woof did. Stranger still, one of them was dressed in black and
one in brown, and the latter looked so exactly like his sister that
Boxer turned to look at her, to make sure that she was beside him
there on the edge of the dam.

Boxer dropped down on all fours. The little stranger in black did the
same thing. It provoked Boxer. Like a flash he struck at that stranger.
Quick as he was, the stranger was as quick. Boxer saw a stout little
paw exactly like his own coming toward him. He dodged, and as he did
so his own swiftly moving little paw struck--nothing but water. It so
surprised Boxer that he lost his balance, and in he tumbled with a
splash.


Now Woof-Woof had been so intent on the little stranger in brown
that she had paid no attention to Boxer. Woof-Woof was rather
better-natured than her small brother. She had no desire to quarrel
with these strangers. Slowly, very slowly, she stretched her head
toward the little stranger in brown. The latter did just the same
thing. They were just about to touch noses when Boxer fell in. The
splash startled Woof-Woof so that she lost her balance, and in she went
headfirst with a splash quite equal to that of Boxer.

If ever there were two frightened little Bears, they were the twins. It
was the first time they ever had been in the water all over. They tried
to run, but there was nothing for their feet to touch. This frightened
them still more, and they made their legs go faster. Then they
discovered that they were moving through the water; they were swimming!
they were getting their first bath and their first swimming lesson at
the same time.

It wouldn’t be quite truthful to say that the twins enjoyed that first
bath and swim. They didn’t. In the first place, they had gone in all
over without the least intention of doing so. In fact, they had tumbled
in. This had frightened them. They had opened their mouths to yell and
had swallowed more water than was at all pleasant. Some of it had gone
down the wrong way, and this had choked them. No, the twins didn’t
enjoy that first bath and swim at all.

They climbed out on the dam of Paddy the Beaver and shook themselves,
making the water fly from their coats in a shower. Mother Bear had
started back at the sound of the splashes they had made when they fell
in, but seeing them safe, she grinned and went on about her own affairs.

“This has saved me some trouble,” muttered she. “I probably would have
had hard work to get them into the water without throwing them in. Now
they will not be afraid of it. An accident sometimes proves a blessing.”

Meanwhile the twins had shaken themselves as nearly dry as they could
and were now sitting down side by side, gravely staring at the water.
There was something very mysterious about that water. They felt that
somehow it had played them a trick; that it was its fault that they had
fallen in.

Suddenly Boxer remembered the two little stranger Bears. What had
become of them? In the excitement he had forgotten all about them. He
remembered that it was while striking at one of them he had fallen in.
That little Bear had struck at him at the same time. Boxer couldn’t
recall being hit or striking anything but that water. Then he had
tumbled in.

But had he tumbled in? Hadn’t he been pulled in? Hadn’t that other
little Bear grabbed him and pulled him in? The instant that idea popped
into his head, Boxer was sure that that was how it all came about. He
glared as much as such a little Bear could glare all around in search
of that other little Bear, but no other little Bear but his sister
Woof-Woof was to be seen. She was solemnly gazing at the water.

Now of course the splashing of the twins had made a lot of ripples on
the surface of the water and these destroyed all reflections. But by
now the water had become calm again. Woof-Woof happened to look down
into it almost at her feet. A little brown Bear looked back at her. It
was the same little brown Bear with whom she had tried to touch noses
just before she fell into the water.

Woof-Woof poked Boxer and pointed down at the water. Boxer looked.
There was that same provoking little black Bear. Boxer lifted his lips
and snarled. The other little Bear lifted his lips in exactly the same
way, but Boxer heard no sound save his own snarl. Boxer opened his
mouth and showed all his teeth. The other little Bear opened his mouth
and showed all his teeth. Whatever Boxer did, the other little Bear
did. And it was just the same with Woof-Woof and the little brown Bear.

Boxer was tempted to strike at that little Bear as he had before, but
just as he was about to do it, he remembered what happened before. This
caused him to back away hastily. He wouldn’t give that other fellow a
chance to pull him in again. When he backed away, the other little Bear
did the same thing. In a few steps he disappeared. Boxer cautiously
stole forward. The other little Bear came to meet him.

If ever there were two puzzled little Bears they were Boxer and
Woof-Woof, as they tried to get acquainted with their own reflections
in the pond of Paddy the Beaver.



Wherever Mother Bear went the twins went. In the first place they were
so full of life and mischief that Mother Bear didn’t dare leave them
for any length of time. Then, too, it was good for them to be with her,
for thus they learned many things that they could not have learned
otherwise.

But there were times when Mother Bear found Boxer and Woof-Woof very
much in the way. Such times she was likely to send them up a tree and
tell them to remain there until her return. She always felt that they
were quite safe so long as they were up in a tree, where there was no
real mischief they could get into.

It happened that one morning Mrs. Bear sent them up a tall pine tree
with strict orders to stay there until her return. “Don’t you dare come
down from that tree until I tell you you may,” said she in her deep,
grumbly-rumbly voice, as the twins scrambled up the tree.

“No’m,” replied Woof-Woof meekly. But Boxer didn’t say a word.

No sooner was their mother out of sight than Boxer proposed that they
go down on the ground to play. “She won’t be back for some time,” said
he.

“By the time she does return, we will be back up here and she will
never know anything about it. Come on, Woof-Woof.”

Woof-Woof shook her head. “I’m going to stay right here,” said she,
“and you’d better do the same thing, Boxer. If you get caught, you’ll
get a spanking.”

“Pooh! Who cares for a spanking!” exclaimed Boxer. “Besides, I’m
not going to get one. There isn’t any sense in making us stay up
in this tree. We can’t have any fun up here. Come on down and play
hide-and-seek.”

But Woof-Woof wouldn’t do it. “You’re afraid!” declared Boxer.

“I’m not afraid!” retorted Woof-Woof indignantly. “You heard what
Mother Bear said and you better mind. You may be sorry if you don’t.”

“Fraidy! Fraidy!” jeered Boxer, as he slid down the trunk of the tree.

Now Boxer hadn’t intended to go more than a few feet from the foot of
that tree. He wanted to be near enough to scramble up again at the
first hint of Mother Bear’s approach. But there was nothing to do down
there, and without Woof-Woof to play with he found it very dull.

Little Bears are very restless and uneasy. Boxer walked round and round
that tree because he could think of nothing else to do. By and by a
Merry Little Breeze happened along and tickled his nose with a strange
smell. The Merry Little Breezes were always doing that. Boxer used to
wonder if he ever would learn all the smells of the Green Forest.

Not having anything else to do just then, Boxer decided that he would
follow up that smell and find out where and what it came from. Off he
started, his inquisitive little nose sniffing the air. After a little
that smell grew fainter and fainter, and finally there wasn’t any.
You see, the Merry Little Breezes were carrying it in quite another
direction.

Boxer turned to go back. He thought he was going straight toward that
tree where Mother Bear had left him. But he wasn’t, and by and by he
discovered that he was lost. Then he began to run, and as he ran he
whimpered. Suddenly out from behind a tree stepped Mother Bear. Boxer
was so glad to see her he quite forgot that he had disobeyed.

But Mother Bear didn’t forget, “What are you doing here?” she demanded.
Boxer hung his head and didn’t say a word.

“A cub who disobeys must be punished,” said Mother Bear, and she
promptly gave Boxer the first real spanking he ever had received. How
he did wish he had stayed up in that tree with Woof-Woof.


Sulky folks are not pleasant to have around. They should be put away
by themselves and kept there until they are through being sulky. Now
ordinarily little Bears are not sulky. It isn’t their nature to be
sulky. But Boxer, the disobedient little cub, was sulky. He was very
sulky indeed. And it was all because of his twin sister, Woof-Woof.

It had been bad enough to be spanked for his disobedience, but Boxer
had felt that he deserved this. He had bawled lustily and then he had
whimpered softly all the way back to that tree in which Woof-Woof had
obediently remained. Until he reached the foot of that tree and looked
up at Woof-Woof, there had been no sulkiness in Boxer.

But when he saw Woof-Woof grinning down at him as if she were glad of
all his trouble, Boxer suddenly felt that he was the most abused little
Bear in all the Great World.

“Don’t you wish you hadn’t tried to be so smart?” whispered Woof-Woof,
when at Mother Bear’s command she had joined Boxer on the ground. “I
heard you bawling. I guess next time you’ll be good like me.”

This was too much for Boxer, and he struck at Woof-Woof.

Instantly he felt the sting of Mother Bear’s big paw. It made him
squeal. Woof-Woof grinned at him again, but she took care that Mother
Bear shouldn’t see that grin. Woof-Woof actually seemed to enjoy seeing
Boxer in trouble. Little folks and some big ones often are that way.

So, because with Mother Bear there he had no chance to show his spite
to Woof-Woof, Boxer sulked. He wanted to be by himself just to pity
himself. Instead of walking close at the heels of Mother Bear as
usual, he allowed Woof-Woof to take that place, and he tagged on
behind just as far back as he dared to. Once in a while Woof-Woof would
turn her head and make a face at him. Boxer pretended not to see this.

When they stopped to rest, Boxer curled up by himself and pretended to
have a nap, while all the time he was just sulking. When after a while
Woof-Woof tried to make friends with him, he would have nothing to do
with her. Boxer was actually having a good time being miserable. People
can get that way sometimes.

Finally Mother Bear lost patience and sent him in under the great
windfall to the bedroom where he was born. “Stay in there until you get
over being sulky,” said she. “Don’t put foot outside until you can be
pleasant.”

So Boxer crept under the great windfall to the bedroom where he had
spent his babyhood. There he curled up and was more sulky then ever.
He said to himself that he hated Mother Bear and he hated his sister,
Woof-Woof. He didn’t do anything of the kind. He loved both dearly.
But he tried to make himself believe that he hated them. People in the
sulks are very fond of doing things like that.

So while Woof-Woof went over to the Laughing Brook with Mother Bear,
under the great windfall Boxer lay and sulked and tried to think of
some way of getting even with Mother Bear and Woof-Woof.



Boxer lay curled up in a corner of the bedroom under the great
windfall, and there he sulked and sulked and sulked and tried to make
himself believe he was the worst treated little Bear in all the Great
World. But sulking all alone isn’t any fun at all. No one can truly
enjoy being sulky, with no one to see it. So in spite of himself Boxer
was soon wondering what Woof-Woof and Mother Bear were doing. He had
seen them start off toward the Laughing Brook and though he wouldn’t
own up to it, even to himself, he wished that he was with them. He
dearly loved to play along the Laughing Brook.

When he could stand it no longer, Boxer stole out to the entrance
and poked his head out from under the great windfall. There he stood
for the longest time looking, listening, smelling. Everything looked
just as usual. There were no strange sounds. The Merry Little Breezes
brought him no new smells. There were no signs of Mother Bear and
Woof-Woof. He didn’t know whether they had gone up the Laughing Brook
or down the Laughing Brook. He tried to pretend that he didn’t care
where they were or what they were doing.

But he didn’t succeed. You know it isn’t often you can really and
truly fool yourself. You may fool other people, but not yourself. So
after a while Boxer gave up trying to pretend he didn’t care. And then
sulkiness gave way to temper, bad temper.

“I-I-I’ll go way, way off in the Great World and never come back. Then
I guess Mother Bear and Woof-Woof will be sorry and wish they had been
good to me,” muttered Boxer.







